---
title: Understanding Gatsby Starter Blog
date: '2019-04-22T19:02:16.541Z'
description: Shallow-dive on all of the files generated by Gatsby + gatsby-starter-blog
---

### Who are you?

This is targeted toward folks who've bootstrapped a blog using [gatsby-starter-blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog) and want to gain a deeper understanding of what's going on underneath the hood.

If you haven't bootstrapped your gatsby-starter-blog yet, it's easy as pie:

```bash
npx gatsby new my-blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog
```

### Who am I?

Hi, my name is Tripp, and I'm a web developer at Vistaprint. I bootstrapped a blog with gatsby and spent some time researching every file/dependency that was generated, so that you don't have to <3.

### Tangent

In some version of this post, I used the word, "eureka," and went on a tangent about it. "Eureka" didn't make the final cut, but I'm gonna leave the content in a footnote[^1] in case anyone is curious about word-origins like I am.

### Business time

Okay, so you looked up "gatsby blog" on Google, found `gatsby-starer-blog` on GitHub, ran a couple commands in your terminal and now you've got a pretty nice blog on your hands! All you have to do is write some Markdown and you're a blog-master. You could just deploy this blog with [now.sh](https://zeit.co/now) and move along to the next project, but then again, maybe that's not you. Maybe you were the type of kid who took all of their toys apart and tried to put them back together (with varying degrees of success). Maybe you want to know _how_ it works.

Hopefully you do! Because that's why I'm writing about!

But, maybe that's not you, and that's okay too. Let's be friends either way. Here's my [Twitter](https://twitter.com/tripphamm) :)

###

[^1]: "Eureka" is a weird word, right? Before writing this, I had the vague idea that it's a thing that you can say when inspiration strikes and you finally figure out the answer to a tough problem, but I'd never really thought much about it. I get hung up on these things sometimes. Maybe you do too. [Here's the wikipedia article](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eureka_(word)>). TL;DR - Ancient Greek scholar, Archimedes, famously exclaimed "Eureka! Eureka!" when he realized that he could measure the volume of an irregular solid by submerging it in water and measuring the amount of liquid that was displaced. The word itself comes from an ancient Greek term which roughly translates to: "I found it!"
